---
published: false
---


## Experimenting with Jenkins and Docker

I decided to play a little with Jenkins so that I could learn more about CD/CI and about Jenkins itself... turns out I can play with it using Docker.

***


## Installing

I went on the documentation to see how one would go about [installing Jenkins](https://wiki.jenkins-ci.org/display/JENKINS/Installing+Jenkins) and to my amusement I could use [docker to help](https://wiki.jenkins-ci.org/display/JENKINS/Installing+Jenkins+with+Docker) me with that.

	docker run  -d -p 49001:8080 -v $PWD/jenkins:/var/jenkins_home  -t jenkins 
    
If you don't want to have it running on another port you may configure a reverse proxy (or just get the port forwarding from 80 to 8080).

When I ran this command my container would not stay up, it would always be exited.
docker logs showed:
	touch: cannot touch ‘/var/jenkins_home/copy_reference_file.log’: Permission denied
	Can not write to /var/jenkins_home/copy_reference_file.log. Wrong volume permissions?

A-ha... so what do I do now? [This solved this problem for me](https://github.com/jenkinsci/docker/issues/177#issuecomment-163656932).

	sudo chown 1000 $PWD/jenkins/

So just start your container with `docker start` and you are good to go!

	docker start <container-name>

## Creating new items

Ok, now let's get something to be built on our newly installed jenkins.
(Disclaimer: I had to choose one project to be analysed on one of my university classes and after some browsing and voting (the professor said it should be written in Java and have more than 10k lines of code) we decided to use [retrofit](https://github.com/square/retrofit).

It is very intuitive:
1. New job
2. Name of your item
3. Maven project (in my case)

After that we get to configure our new item. But first, I remember I had seen something about a github plugin.. that might help me, right? 

***


## Plugins

As I said above, I saw something about a github plugin for jenkins... One of the most fun parts for me of every project are the plugins aind integrations with other services. Jenkins has no shortage of plugins and I could spend alot of time reading about every plugin and everything.. anyway, Let's see about that github plugin.

You can see the list of plugins clicking on Manage Jenkins on the menu that is on the left side of your browser.

So you should go **Manage Jenkins** > **Manage Plugins** > **Available** and there you can find a list of all plugins that are not yet installed on your Jenkins.

You should **definetly** spend some time browsing the plugins section and see what other cool plugins you might find that are useful.

***

## Configuring Jenkins

Now, since the project I've choosen uses maven for build, I should tell Jenkins that I am gonna need to use maven somehow..

**Manage Jenkins** > **Configure System**

There you are gonna find a Maven section (I can't remember if I had to install a plugin for Maven of it came right out of the box.. if you can't find this Maven section you might have to install it's plugin).

You should click on **Add Maven** then **Add Installer**. In my case I named it maven and clicked the **Install automatically** checkbox and then **Install from Apache**.




